Week 4 Reflection

This week I tested out the pen plotters in documenting the p5.js sketches I have been developing over the past week. 
The first step in this was the limiting of my canvases to an area that would fit on the page. 
I began with my “unwound” sketch from last week, adapting the code to the recommended proportions and support .svg export. 
This was then clipped and pasted into my other sketches with trial-and-error determining how I scaled each respective sketch.

I then tested some representative techniques on a scrap piece of paper to analyze drawing tools for desired effects (see palettetest.jpg). 
This involved an array of drawing implements, including opaque sharpies, standard ink pens, gel pens, crayons, colored pencils, oil pastels, and even chalk. 
What I chose to explore for this week in learning the pen plotter protocol was a combination of sharpies, standard ink pens, and gel pens.

I began my plotting test with the “unwound” sketch, first implementing it with silver sharpie on black paper. 
I found that without rescaling the canvas, the drawing is made in the top corner, so for my second trial I expanded the canvas so the output would be centered. 
I also tried to layer linework onto the silver sharpie, however there was an alignment issue that arose. 
I aim to try this again in the future, hoping that the error was just a simple mistake of forgetting to zero the plotter before one of the plots (see unwound.jpg).

Moving on, I experimented with drawing one of my recursive sketches with ink on plain drawing paper. 
What I found when using a thinner line weight was that the plotter was not as precise as I expected, with linework not being perfectly straight (see wavylines.jpg and uneventree1.jpg).

Then I worked with gel pens on black paper to document my nebula sketch. 
Interestingly, I found that .svg output from p5.js isn’t clipped by the canvas. 
Because I was already set up, I quickly solved this by rearranging some of the linework to be within the bounds of the recommended ‘postcard’ scale (see nebulagenerator.jpg).

Lastly, I wanted to try a scaled up version of my recursive sketch with the thinnest lineweight I had, resulting in the second drawing from the uneven tree sketch (see uneventree2.jpg).

